UI  - 2211950 
AB  - Introduction  In  response  to  the  high  cost  and  high  risk  associated  with  traditional  de  novo  drug  discovery,  investigation  of potential additional uses for existing drugs, also known as drug repositioning, has attracted increasing attention from both  the  pharmaceutical  industry  and  the  research  community.  We  hypothesize  that  diseases  are  related  to  each other,  and  learning  multiple  related  tasks  simultaneously  could  improve  the  prediction  performance  of  drug repositioning.  In  this  study,  we  propose  a  multi-task  learning  (MTL)  framework  to  generate  drug  repositioning hypotheses and compare it with single-task learning (STL) strategy.  Methods  We collected 1255 drugs from DrugBank. Each drug was represented by an 881-dimensional binary profile whose elements encode for the presence or absence of each PubChem substructure by 1 or 0, respectively. The known uses of  these  drugs  were  collected  from  MEDI  database  [1].  Indications  in  MEDI  were  coded  as  ICD9  codes.  We grouped ICD9 codes based on their first 3 digits to avoid trivial predictions (i.e., repurpose a drug from a disease to very similar diseases). Also, we excluded non-disease conditions and rare diseases, and obtained 100 ICD9 groups as diseases in our drug repositioning experiment. Between our 1255 drugs and 100 diseases, there are 3430 distinct drug-disease interactions in the dataset.  We modeled the drug repositioning task as a binary classification problem. We constructed a classifier for predicting whether  a  given  drug  could  treat  a  particular  disease  or  not,  and  repeated  this  process  for  all  100  diseases.  In  the scenario  of  STL,  such  100  tasks  are  solved  independently,  ignoring  the  task  relatedness.  However,  the  tasks  of predicting disease indications of drugs are related (as a disease might associate with other diseases in real life). In MTL, these related tasks are learnt simultaneously by extracting and utilizing appropriate shared information across tasks. Figure 1 illustrates the difference between STL and MTL.  In our study, we used logistic regression as the base classifier to compare STL and MTL. We extended a multi-task relationship  learning  [2]  model  to  deal  with  binary  targets  and  applied  it  to  drug  repositioning  problem.  We  also investigated whether imposing a prior to target relatedness could improve the performance of MTL predictions. In our  problem,  the  prior  knowledge  comes  from  the  hierarchical  structure  of  ICD9  codes  (i.e.,  disease  areas  and grouping information of the targets). In total, we considered three drug repositioning methods in the experiment: (1) STL;  (2)  MTL  without  prior;  (3)  MTL  with  prior.  We  used  a  10-fold  cross  validation  scheme  to  evaluate  the performance of all methods.  Results  Figure 2 shows the ROC curves of the three methods in the experiment. The figure shows that MTL without prior and  MTL  with  prior  obtained  AUC  scores  of  0.8431  and  0.8592  respectively,  which  are  significantly  higher  than that  of  STL  (0.7930).  In  our  drug  repositioning  experiment,  learning  multiple  related  tasks  simultaneously effectively increases the training sample (i.e., known drug-disease interactions) size for each task, and improves the prediction  performance.  Figure  2  also  shows  that  incorporating  a  prior  from  ICD9  hierarchical  structure  could improve the performance of MTL predictions.  As  an  important  by-product,  MTLs  also  learn  target  relatedness  (i.e.,  disease  associations)  during  the  predictions. Figure 3 is a heatmap of learned target relatedness from MTL with prior. In the heatmap, a high value between two tasks  indicates  the  two  diseases  are  highly  correlated  during  the  predictions.  For  example,  ICD9  group  401 (Hypertension)  is  found  to  be  highly  correlated  with  ICD9  group  299  (Autism)  by  MTL  with  prior,  which  is  in agreement with a recent clinical trial [3]. The learned target relatedness from MTL could provide additional insights for downstream investigations including clinical trials.  
 
UI  - 2212223 
AB  - Despite their widespread use, audit and feedback (A&F) interventions show variable effectiveness on improving professional performance. Based on known facilitators of successful A&F interventions, we developed a web-based A&F intervention with indicator-based performance feedback, benchmark information, action planning and outreach visits. The goal of the intervention was to engage with multidisciplinary teams to overcome barriers to guideline concordance and to improve overall team performance in the field of cardiac rehabilitation (CR). To assess its effectiveness we conducted a cluster-randomized trial in 18 CR clinics (14,847 patients) already working with computerized decision support (CDS). Our preliminary results showed no increase in concordance with guideline recommendations regarding prescription of CR therapies. Future analyses will investigate whether our intervention did improve team performance on other quality indicators. 
